Hello?
Okay.
My name is Chad Miller.
You can find me on blue sky, chadcmiller.
com.
I've been doing a lot of different experimentation with app views.
So a lot of experiments with apps that aren't blue sky
clients or anything related to blue sky at all.
Just kind of like you have some custom lexicons and
you want to build an app.
So I've been doing a lot of experiments with that.
What is an app view?
If you don't know, it kind of sits in between the
relay and the sort of client that you're using.
So you have all this information flowing from all of your records
flowing from the PDS through the relay.
The app view sort of is the place that stores all of
your records and brings them all together from all the different PD
Ss across the network and then sort of hydrate, brings
all that data together, hydrates it.
So you're like counts and your common counts and all that
stuff and provides it to, you know, your web app or your
mobile application to render it on the screen.
If we look closer at the app view itself, there's a
bunch of things going on.
So we have a firehose connection, but we also need
to take into account pretty much all the data that we care
about.
So the backfill, that's the backfill portion.
So we have some kind of indexer that's going to
take in all of these events from the network.
You have like commit, commits.
They're called commit events.
So you have creates, updates, deletes.
Those then, you know, you filter those down to what you care
about.
So you might only care about a, what is the connection le
xicon from the connection app that everybody's been using.
You might only care about that.
So that filters through the database and then you sort of have
a hydration layer that's going to request all those and return
them via what in at protoland is called XRPC
endpoints.
Really, it's just an HTTP endpoint that's typed against your
lexicons.
So you can define what the responses are in your lex
icon definitions.
And then if we look a little bit closer at the sort
of request pipeline, you'll, if you look closer at the app
proto repo, you'll sort of see this pattern a lot.
And you sort of fetch all of the, you know, you batch
fetch all these records from the database, apply some rules to them.
This might be some labels that you have for moderation.
And, you know, bringing all that together, all of the, the like
counts and the common counts together to return the JSON response.
So where can you get started if you want to build your
own app view?
You know, the main reference repo is the app proto repo that
is essentially the backend for blue sky.
How many people have spent a lot of time digging through that
code?
Yeah.
There's status sphere, but it's pretty basic.
It just has like a single crud, it's just like
a create operation.
So it's not really like that much going on.
And obviously you want your app to be a lot more, you
know, a lot richer than status sphere.
And then we have all the community app views.
So we have like leaflet, tangled.
What else is there?
Margin.
There's off print.
There's all these app views out there now.
So there's a lot of good reference places, like depending on
which programming language you're into.
And right now it's kind of like, you know, an art
project.
So everybody has their own implementation of what, you know, it says
on app proto.
com and the specs and what they've sort of gathered from
the app proto repo.
I have spent some time sort of putting patterns together into a
service that you can just deploy called quick slice.
And it sort of maps your lexicons to a Graph
QL API that you can just query without having to do a
whole lot.
And then there's also constellation.
There's sometimes you might not need an app view.
So figs APIs provide a way to just get like, like,
for example, npmx just wants to show the like count
on their packages.
So they can just use constellation for that.
So they don't even need nep view.
So what are all the things that you need?
You need a way to backfill all the data on the
network.
So that is going to be probably heard a lot about tap.
Tap provides a way to to filter those collections that you want.
There's also other ways you can parse the card files manually
and have your own process for backfilling.
Indexing.
So you need some sort of layer to translate the lex
icon records into your database.
And then there's some kind of code gen aspect, which works
with the lexicon definitions.
Again, with the XRPC endpoints.
So usually when you're working with lexicons, you want
a way to have, you know, type safe endpoints against those.
OAuth.
Generally be nice to have this all figured out for you and
you don't have to worry about it.
And not really necessary for every application, but there is this concept
of the feed generator in blue sky, which is a separate server
that you can run that pretty much just returns the URI
s of records that can be picked up by blue sky to
render a feed.
That same pattern can be used in any app proto application.
And I'm actually going to show you really in a second
what that looks like.
Labels.
Obviously, if you want to do some kind of moderation, you're
going to need to have some sort of support for labeling.
This can be a simple, just a simple table in your database
to make it quick.
And then preferences.
Sometimes you want to have data that's stored privately to the
app view.
And you can sort of just have a preferences table for that.
And then open graph.
So generally you want to have a way to like share images,
image previews back to blue sky for for rendering like a
social post.
So I've been sort of playing around with the newer ideas
in this framework I call hack.
It's sort of like a conventional, like a convention over configuration,
although there's still some configuration framework for building an app view.
You can sort of attach this app view server to a S
velte app.
You can check it out at hack.
dev.
It's pretty early alpha.
Just sort of playing around with some ideas.
I just recently rewrote grain social to use -- this is
the -- rewrote grain social to use all these patterns.
It's all open source untangled.
There's a bunch of feeds here.
People upload photos and it shows the data as a feed and
locations as a feed.
And then there's actually one thing I wanted to point out
is there's a great pattern for running your app view locally.
A lot of times it's hard to reproduce stuff because there
's a lot, you know, there's a lot of stuff that
you have to do to bring an app view together.
But there's a pattern in there for running your app locally
and having reproducible data that you can use to help build
your app.
And yeah, that's all I got.